So we are about to dig into our third and
final project notebook,
how fast are API responses?
Once again, you can access this from the
other materials that we've been looking at
by clicking that Data Visualization First
Steps at the top by the square icon,
and then navigating to it in the sidebar.
And I've also dropped the link.
So we are going to pour
through another data set.
For this exercise,
we're going to be looking at the type of
data that we might find in our API logs,
or we might be able, better said,
to wrangle out of our API logs.
So what we're gonna be looking
at in this exercise is some
data about different responses
served by a fictional API
at different endpoints for
different paths requested.
And what the code was, what the status
code was for that response,
and how long each of those took,
so what the response time was.
And so again, we're gonna kind of
pretend that we've already done
whatever wrangling we need to
do on our raw API logs to get
the information that we
care about out of them.
Because this is a course in data
visualization and not data wrangling for
data visualization.
So we're just gonna assume that
we've already done that step.
But in your own life, you might find
yourself needing to pour through your
log data and doing some filtering and
maybe doing some mapping or,
again, reshaping that data as
we saw in the last example.
But in this case, we get the jumpstart
with this apiLogData.json file.
So once again,
we're going back to the JSON format.
And here, we have parsed out
this file attachment as JSON.
And in just one additional step
here as a little wrangling step,
we have some string timestamps
in our original data.
And so what we're doing is
we're taking those timestamps,
which were in the file, they were strings.
And we are just converting
them to actual date objects so
that we can plot them on a date scale
instead of as just different strings.
In any case, this is all done for you.
So we've got this apiLogData array with
all of our data that we care about in it.
And, again,
we're throwing that into a little table
here just to have a browse through.
So we can see that we've got
a duration here in milliseconds.
And then we've got the status code of the
response, unfortunately, not always 200.
And we have the path of the, again,
fictional API endpoint that was requested,
and then the timestamp
that that request came in.
So that is what we're dealing with here.
And what we're gonna be focusing on in
this project is actually adding some
interactivities, adding some
controls to our charts.
We've already done a little bit
of that with our title tooltips.
But in this one, we're going to
actually look at some more input
controls that we could add to our
charts to add more interactivity.
So first of all, let's create a chart
that we can then add interactivity to.
So we're going to create another dot plot,
which we just got some experience with.
So this time, not so many training
wheels on [LAUGH] this exercise.
We're gonna try to stretch
again our plotting
muscles that we've been
working out today and
create a dot plot showing the response
to each different request.
Where we're gonna have time on the x-axis,
so
those timestamp values across the x-axis.
And then duration, and again, those
values are milliseconds on the y-axis.
And we're not particularly
caring about the actual,
when exactly each of
these requests happened.
But they give us a way of
sequencing the data in order so
that we can see over time
whatever trends we might have.
So if you don't like seeing those
date labels along the bottom,
you could suppress them, but
you can also leave them.
And so there's some suggestions here.
We might, for example, also distinguish
different paths in the requests
because we do have a lot
of different endpoints, but
we also have a lot of the same endpoint
being hit over and over again.
So we could use the color of
the dots to encode that property,
and we can then see what
patterns emerge there.
Like for example, you'll find that
some of those endpoints account for
a lot of traffic.
And then you also might want to mess with
the opacity there if you're having a hard
time distinguishing different data points.
So at this point,
we have all the tools under our belt
that we need to create this dot plot.
So I will let you get creative with it.
Have fun with the different channels.
And there are some hints,
but not really that many, so
you can also refer back to the previous
exercise dot plot to get started or
just to copy over the basic syntax.